So what if we create a lambda function?
What's a lambda function?
A function that we create
on the fly without a name.
So we create a function, okay?
Let's see like this, and then we have,
Before that function, and we call go,
Like this here, okay?
And, Then we wanna execute
Done here, wg.
Did they change anything in particular?
Well, not yet, not yet,
that's why I'm going to refactor this.
So I'm creating a function that,
am I calling the function?
No, in fact, it's complaining that.
If I look at the code, it's complaining
that I have a function that is not used.
So I have a literal function that
is not used, no one is using this.
How can I use a literal function?
I can execute it immediately right now.
This is an immediate
execution literal function.
This was a pattern pretty common in
JavaScript a few years ago, okay?
That right now is not so common,
but you're gonna feel fine.
So we create a function, and
then we execute the function.
What's the difference at this point?
No difference, no difference.
But, Now, what if we
change the go, that go call.
Did you hear that?
She said go.
So he got the answer.
So we moved the go there.
So now we create a new goroutine with this
function that will synchronously execute,
get currency data, and
when you finish it will call Done.
And because this function,
it's within the other function.
So this literal function is inside
the other one, go supports closures.
So it can access local variables
that are part of the outer function.
So I can access wg.
Okay, makes sense.
Yeah, I mentioned that this
will be a little hacky.
It's not yet done, though.
So, if I execute this,
I got something, but
not exactly what I was expecting.
I got three responses, but
the three for Bitcoin Cash.
So if then go fan of Bitcoin Cash,
that's not the thing because I might
change the order here in the array.
If I run this again, I'm getting ETH.
So it seems like for some reason,
now I'm getting only the last.
Does anyone know why?
>> Changing the value of currency
each time you go through that loop.
>> Something like that, in fact,
can you see that we have a warning there,
we have a yellow underline.
It's already saying, hey, be careful,
maybe you have a problem.
So what's going on here?
This is a for, okay, and
closures in go works in this way.
When you have a closure and
what's a closure,
the access of a local variable that
is actually from the outer function.
So in this case currency,
it's a local variable that was
defined in the outer function.
So I mean this function and
this is main is the outer function, okay?
So we have two functions.
We're getting kind of
not a copy of the value,
but the reference of the value.
So, getCurrencyData has a reference
to the currency variable, okay?
So, we have a for, a loop.
We are immediately creating and
launching all the goroutines,
immediately, okay, one by one.
So when each goroutine it starts
the process and goes to a network,
when they go and read the currency
property, the currency property is
actually the last one, because the for
already completed the loop.
Does it make sense?
It takes time to understand
what's going on.
And always, when you work with threats,
it's difficult to think about what's going
on, it takes time to get used to that.
But the idea here is that,
the problem is that we are actually
looking at the currency,
and it's not a copy, so
each goroutine has access to
the same currency variable,
because we don't have different
memory spaces per goroutine,
it's the same memory space.
So, they all access to the same currency
variable that when the for ends,
it's in the last one.
Makes sense?
I'm probably thinking, but
why is it still alive, the variable,
because actually, the for ends.
If the for ends, well,
the currency is only the for.
Well, when you have a closure,
the closure is doing that.
If you have a function that has a closure,
it's actually like grabbing
that variable and
keeping that variable alive for more time.
Anyway, to come to solve the problem.
>> Cast or make a clone of the string.
>> Make a clone of the string.
So what, talking about cloning or copy
values, do you remember any ability in go
that is doing that by default,
cloning variables, copying variables?
>> If it's defined outside-
>> It is defined outside because currency
is defined outside.
>> [INAUDIBLE] pointer.
>> Pointer, but we have a pointer problem.
Yeah.
>> Function params are copy.
>> Params, function arguments.
When you call a function,
remember, when you call a function,
the value that you pass as an argument
will be copied, will be cloned.
What if when you say, okay,
where do I have an argument here?
Maybe, I can receive one
in my literal function.
So I can receive, let's call that
currencyCode just to change the name,
there's going to be a string.
And then I'm going to use that
currencyCode that it should be a copy.
But now I have an error because it says,
hey, that function,
the literal function receives an argument,
so I'm going to pass the currency.
Again, if I show you this code without
explaining it, it takes a while.
What's going on, okay?
So I'm pretty sure that some of
you are still thinking what's
going on even with all
the steps one by one.
But actually,
let's try to review what's going on.
First, let's run this.
So let me run this.
Now, it's back.
So it's working back and
now it's not waiting like three seconds,
four seconds,
the waiting group is working.
So that wait,
that w waited that we have there,
will stay there until
the working group is done.
Remember, the working
group is just a counter.
The problem is that we need to understand
how to add one and how to call Done.
Done is when that one is done.
And it's a little tricky to understand how
to do that when you have just one code
that is kind of executed
in different goroutines.
That makes sense?
Yeah, within the chat.
>> Can we refactor it to a new function
since we are sending via params.
>> We can, yeah, in that case
we won't have the wg variable.
So you need to find a way to
pass that wg as an argument or
define that as a package variable,
as a global variable.
Because here we are taking advantage
of we can call wg done because
we are also using a closure.
But yeah, you can refactor this.
You just need to understand
what's going on with goroutines.
And in this case, we mix also the idea
of a closure and how closures work.
And if you're in a loop,
inside the closure,
you will always get the last value,
the last index,
unless you make a copy of the value
when you are looping that element.
That was a little hacky, I know.
Do you have any questions?
Yeah.
>> It looks hacky, but is this a common
pattern, a common way to solve this.
>> If it is the code is,
I will say simple enough, yes.
Maybe you think it's not simple,
but this is kind of simple, but
it's it gets more complicated.
Yeah, it's virtual,
like move this to a different pattern.
But anyway, it's important to first start
with something simple to get the idea,
because if not, it gets complicated
understanding routines.
And that every goroutine is actually in
the same share space, because it's like,
initially we think that every goroutine
we have its own set of variable, and
that's not true.